Introduction to Systematic Program Design
=========================================

I'm currently enrolled in a massively open online course (MOOC) offered through
Coursera entitled "[Introduction to Systematic Program Design, Part
1](https://www.coursera.org/course/programdesign)". It is a 10-week long course
provided by the University of British Columbia.

The course uses DrRacket, an IDE for Scheme, one of the most common dialects of
Lisp. Since taking the course I've learned that many universities use Scheme or
Lisp when teaching computer science -- it's tough to get my head around, but I
find that the functional approach and style of programming is better suited to
me than the mainstream, imperative approach. If I ever get a brain and
miraculously become an adequate program developer someday, I'll certainly expand
into the imperative domain of languages. I like the idea of being raised and
developed in the functional style/approach, so this is where I plan to stay for
awhile.

All of my course files are located here. You'll see that it's not possible to
simply view the \*.rkt source files because DrRacket is needed to open them --
this is a deliberate design decision by the DrRacket development team. DrRacket
is an IDE with teaching as a focus, and as such, files are encoded when a person
chooses to use one of the teaching languages. We're using BSL, the beginning
student language.

One could choose to simply use the Racket language in DrRacket (without the
teaching features enabled) and save their files as plain text. I just did this
for an exercise from a book I'm reading entitled, "The Little Schemer". I saved
the file using the standard Scheme \*.scm extension (which is why GitHub lists
my second language as Scheme).

Here are a couple of other links you may find interesting:

* [Structure & Interpretation of Computer Programs (SICP), Abelson &
  Sussman](http://sicpebook.wordpress.com/)
* [The Scheme Programming Language, 4th Edition, R. Kent
  Dybvig](http://www.scheme.com/tspl4/)
* [The Little Schemer](http://scottn.us/downloads/The_Little_Schemer.pdf)
  (teaches recursion)

Cheers, and if you haven't explored the world of Lisp and Scheme, I'd recommend
at least giving them a look. It's all pretty fascinating. :-)
